 We hear a lot about how artificial intelligence and machine learning are going to change the world and how the internet of 
things will makeeveryone's life easier. But what's the one thing that underpins all of theserevolutionary Technologies? The 
answer is data. From social media tothe iot devices for generating. Bill amount of data considerthe cab service provider Uber. 
I'm sure all of youhave used Uber. What are you think makes Uber a multi-billiondollar worth company. Is it that availability of 
cabs or is it their service? Well, the answer isdata data makes them very rich, but wait, is there enoughto grow a business? Of 
course, itisn't you must know how to use the datato draw useful insights and solve problems. This is where datascience 
comes in in. Words data science isthe process of using data to find Solutions or to predict outcomes for a problem statement 
tobetter understand data science. Let's see how it affectsour day-to-day activities. It's a Monday morningand I have to get to 
office before my meeting starts. So I quickly open up Uber and look for cabs, but there's something unusual the gab reads A 
comparatively higher at this hour of the day. Why does this happen? Well, obviously becauseMonday mornings are P cars 
and everyoneis rushing off to work. Work the high demandfor cams leads to increase in the cab fares. We all know this but 
how is all ofthis implemented data science is at the heart of Ubers pricingalgorithm The Surge pricing algorithm ensures that 
their passengersalways get a ride when they need one. Even if it comes at the costof inflated prices Uber implements data 
scienceto find out which neighborhoods will be the busiest so that it can activatesearch pricing to get more drivers on the
 roadin this manner over maximized. The number of rides itcan provide and hence benefit from this Uber surge pricing 
algorithm uses data science. Let's see how a data scienceprocess always begins with understanding the business 
requirement or the problem. You're trying tosolve in this case. The business requirement is to build a dynamic pricing model 
that takes effect. When a lot of people in the same area are requesting rides at the same time. This is followed by data 
collection Uber collectsdata such as the weather. Oracle data holidays timetraffic pick up and drop location and it keeps a 
trackof all of this. The next stage is data cleaning while sometimes unnecessary data is collected such data only increases the 
complexity of the problem an example isboober might collect information like the location of restaurants and cafes nearby now 
such data is not needed to analyzeUber surge pricing there for such data has to be removed at this step data planningis
 followed by date. Exploration and Analysis. The data exploration stage is like the brainstormingof data analysis. This is where
 you understandthe patterns in your data. This is followed by datamodeling the data modeling stage basically includes 
buildinga machine learning model that predicts the Uber surgeat a given time and location. This model is builtby using all the
 insights and Trends collected in the exploration stage. The model is trained by feeding at thousands of customer records,
 so that it can Learn to predictthe outcome more precisely. Next is the datavalidation stage now here the model is tested when 
a new customer booksarrive the data of the new booking is compared with the historic datain order to check if there are any 
anomaliesin the search prices or any false predictions, if any such anomaliesare detected a notification is immediately sent 
tothe data scientists at Uber who fix the issue. This is how Uberpredicts a surge price for a given location and time the final 
stageof The science is deployment and optimization. So after testing the modeland improving its efficiency, it is deployed on 
all the usersat this stage customer feedback is received andif there are any issues, they are fixed here. So that was the 
entiredata science process. Now, let's lookat a few other applications of data science datascience is implemented in 
e-commerce platforms, like Amazon and Flipkart. It is also the logic behind Netflix's recommendation system now in all 
actuality Quality data science has made remarkable changesin today's market. It's applications rangefrom credit card fraud 
detection to self-driving cars and virtual assistantsuch as City and Alexa. Let's consider an examplesuppose you look for 
shoes on Amazon, but you do not buyit then in there. Now the next day you're watchingvideos on YouTube and suddenly 
you see an adfor the same item you switch to Facebook there. Also, you see the same adso how does this happen? Well 
this Happens because Google Tracksyour search history and recommends ads basedon your search history. This is one 
of the coolestapplications of data science. In fact 35% of Amazon'srevenue is generated by product recommendation. And the
 logic behind productrecommendation is data science. Let me tell you another sadstory Scott killed in never imagined his 
Apple watchmight save his life, but that's exactlywhat happened a few months ago when he had a heart attack in the middle 
of the night. But how could a watch detect a heart attack any guesses? Well, it's data science again. Apple used data science to
 build a watch that monitors and individuals Healththis watch collects data such as the person's heart rate sleep cycle 
breathing rate activity level blood pressure Etcand keeps a record of these measures 24 bars seven. This collected datais then 
processed and analyzed to build a model that predicts the riskof a heart attack. So these were a fewhours Locations now the 
question is how and why you should becomea data scientist according to linkedin'sMarch 2019 survey a data scientist is the 
most promising job role in the US and it stands at number one onglass doors best jobs of 2019. Here are a couple of job 
trends that are collectedfrom LinkedIn top companies like Microsoft IBM Facebook and Google haveover thousand job 
vacancies, and this numberis only going to grow. Hurley these job Trendsshow the vacancy of jobs with respect to jog 
defamecoming to the salary of a data scientist the average salary ranges between a hundred thousand dollars two hundred
 and eighty two thousand dollars. Now remember thatyour salary varies on your skills your levelof experience your geography
 and the company you're working for here are the skills that are needed to becomea data scientist. You must be skilled in
 statistics expertise in programming languages like our and python is a Just you're required to have a goodunderstanding
 of processes, like data extraction processing wrangling and exploration. You must also be well-versedwith the different types
 of machine learning algorithms and how they work Advanced machine learning Concepts like deep learning is also needed 
you must also possess a good understanding of the different bigdata processing Frameworks, like Hadoop and Spark and 
finally, you must know how to visualize the data by using tools like Tableau and power bi now that you know what it takesto
 become a data scientist. It's time to buckle up and kick start your careeras a data scientist. That's all from my side guys. If you
 wish to learn more about such trending Technologies, make sure you subscribe to our Channel until next time happy
 learning. I hope you have enjoyed listening to this video. Please be kind enough to like it and you can comment anyof your 
doubts and queries and we will reply them at the earliest do look outfor more videos in our playlist and To Edureka channel to
 learn more. Happy learning 